Skip to main content
go deploy
AI-102 | Module 4

AI-102 | Module 4
Home
Lab Guide
Microsoft Learn
 Lab Guide
Create a composed Document Intelligence model
In this exercise, you'll create and train two custom models that analyze different tax forms. Then, you'll create a composed model that includes both of these custom models. You'll test the model by submitting a form and you'll check that it recognizes the document type and labeled fields correctly.

Set up resources
We'll use a script to create the Azure AI Document Intelligence resource, a storage account with sample forms, and a resource group:

Start Visual Studio Code.

Open the palette (SHIFT+CTRL+P) and run a Git: Clone command to clone the https://github.com/MicrosoftLearning/mslearn-ai-document-intelligence repository to a local folder (it doesn't matter which folder).

When the repository has been cloned, open the folder in Visual Studio Code.

Note: If you are prompted to add required assets to build and debug, select Not Now. If there are any other pop ups from Visual Studio Code, you can safely dismiss them.

Expand the Labfiles folder in the left pane, and right click on the 03-composed-model directory. Select the option to open in the integrated terminal, and execute the following script:

az login --output none
Note: If you get an error about no active subscriptions and have MFA enabled, you may need to login to Azure portal at https://portal.azure.com first, then rerun the az login.

When prompted, sign into your Azure subscription. Then return to Visual Studio Code and wait for the sign-in process to complete.

In the integrated terminal, run the following command to set up resources:

./setup.ps1
Create the 1040 Forms custom model
To create a composed model, we must first create two or more custom models. To create the first custom model:

In a new browser tab, start the Azure AI Document Intelligence Studio at https://documentintelligence.ai.azure.com/studio

Scroll down, and then under Custom models, select Custom extraction model.

If you're asked to sign into your account, use your Azure credentials.

If you're asked which Azure AI Document Intelligence resource to use, select the subscription and resource name you used when you created the Azure AI Document Intelligence resource.

Under My Projects, select + Create a project.

In the Project name textbox, type 1040 Forms, and then select Continue.

On the Configure service resource page, in the Subscription drop-down list, select your Azure subscription.

In the Resource group drop-down list, select the DocumentIntelligenceResources<xxxx&gt created for you.

In the Azure AI Document Intelligence or Azure AI Service Resource drop-down list, select DocumentIntelligence<xxxx&gt

In the API version drop-down list, ensure that 2023-10-31-preview is selected and then select Continue.

On the Connect training data source page, in the Subscription drop-down list, select your Azure subscription.

In the Resource group drop-down list, select DocumentIntelligenceResources<xxxx&gt.

In the Storage account drop-down list, select the only storage account listed. If you have multiple storage accounts in your subscription, choose the one starting with docintelstorage

In the Blob container drop-down list, select 1040examples, and then select Continue.

In the Review and create page, select Create project.

Select Run layout in the Start labeling now pop up, and wait for the analysis to complete.

Label the 1040 Forms custom model
Now, let's label the fields in the example forms:

In the Label data page, in the top-right of the page, select + Add a field, and then select Field.

Type FirstName and then press Enter.

In the document, select John and then select FirstName.

In the top-right of the page, select +, and then select Field.

Type LastName and then press Enter.

In the document, select Doe and then select LastName.

In the top-right of the page, select +, and then select Field.

Type City and then press Enter.

In the document, select Los Angeles and then select City.

In the top-right of the page, select +, and then select Field.

Type State and then press Enter.

In the document, select CA and then select State.

Repeat the labeling process for the remaining forms in the list on the left, using the labels you created. Label the same four fields: FirstName, LastName, City, and State.

IMPORTANT: For the purposes of this exercise, we're using only five example forms and labeling only four fields. In your real-world models, you should use as many samples as possible to maximize the accuracy and confidence of your predictions. You should also label all the available fields in the forms, rather than just four fields.

Train the 1040 Forms custom model
Now that the sample forms are labeled, we can train the first custom model:

In the Azure AI Document Intelligence Studio, select Train.

In the Train a new model dialog, in the Model ID textbox, type 1040FormsModel.

In the Build mode drop-down list, select Template, and then select Train.

In the Training in progress dialog, select Go to Models.

Create the 1099 Forms custom model
Now, you must create a second model, which you'll train on example 1099 tax forms:

In Azure AI Document Intelligence Studio, select Custom extraction model.

Under My Projects, select + Create a project.

In the Project name textbox, type 1099 Forms, and then select Continue.

On the Configure service resource page, in the Subscription drop-down list, select your Azure subscription.

In the Resource group drop-down list, select DocumentIntelligenceResources<xxxx&gt.

In the Azure AI Document Intelligence or Azure AI Service Resource drop-down list, select DocumentIntelligence<xxxx&gt

In the API version drop-down list, ensure that 20223-10-31-preview is selected and then select Continue.

On the Connnect training data source page, in the Subscription drop-down list, select your Azure subscription.

In the Resource group drop-down list, select DocumentIntelligenceResources<xxxx&gt.

In the Storage account drop-down list, select the only storage account listed.

In the Blob container drop-down list, select 1099examples, and then select Continue.

In the Review and create page, select Create project.

Select Run layout in the Start labeling now pop up, and wait for the analysis to complete.

Label the 1099 Forms custom model
Now, label the example forms with some fields:

In the Label data page, in the top-right of the page, select +, and then select Field.

Type FirstName and then press Enter.

In the document, select John and then select FirstName.

In the top-right of the page, select +, and then select Field.

Type LastName and then press Enter.

In the document, select Doe and then select LastName.

In the top-right of the page, select +, and then select Field.

Type City and then press Enter.

In the document, select New Haven and then select City.

In the top-right of the page, select +, and then select Field.

Type State and then press Enter.

In the document, select CT and then select State.

Repeat the labeling process for the remaining forms in the list on the left. Label the same four fields: FirstName, LastName, City, and State.

Train the 1099 Forms custom model
You can now train the second custom model:

In the Azure AI Document Intelligence Studio, select Train.
In the Train a new model dialog, in the Model ID textbox, type 1099FormsModel.
In the Build mode drop-down list, select Template, and then select Train.
In the Training in progress dialog, select Go to Models.
The training process can take a few minutes. Refresh the browser occasionally until both models display the succeeded status.
Create and assemble a composed model
The two custom models, which analyze 1040 and 1099 tax forms, are now complete. You can proceed to create the composed model:

In the Azure AI Document Intelligence Models page, select both 1040FormsModel and 1099FormsModel.

At the top of the list of models, select Compose.

In the Compose a new model dialog, in the Model ID textbox, type TaxFormsModel and then select Compose. Azure AI Document Intelligence creates the composed model and displays it in the list of custom models:

Use the composed model
Now that the composed model is complete, let's test it with an example form:

In the Azure AI Document Intelligence Studio, select the Test page, select the TaxFormsModel from the dropdown.

Select Browse for files and then browse to the location where you cloned the repository.

Select 03-composed-model/trainingdata/TestDoc/f1040_7.pdf, and then select Open.

Select Run analyze. Azure AI Document Intelligence analyses the form by using the composed model.

The document you analyzed is an example of the 1040 tax form. Check the DocType property to see if the correct custom model has been used. Also check the FirstName, LastName, City, and State values identified by the model.

Learn more

Compose custom models
 00:56:330 hours and 56 minutes remaining on your lab session
Keyboard released from VM
